Episode 1 plot

- Powered by Godot Engine. "This game and this entire video is made with Godot Engine"

- Ordered set of footages that will be used during this video. For the time being it is undefined. Mainly this part is needed for music to play, really.

- Planning.
Hello everyone, and welcome to the first episode of the Index: Purger devlog. In this episode, I'd like to give a brief introduction to the entire game project. In this devlog series, I'm going to share the progress of the game's development as well as technical information that may be useful to developers or interesting to players. This may include my thoughts on game design in general, workflows, Godot-specific tools, and so on. This way, I hope that these series will be both informative about the game's development progress and useful to others. Aside from that, I want to create a community around this game in order to receive more community feedback and improve it in all possible ways.
This episode will be covering the following sections:
:: A Short Brief into Game.
:: Story of the Beginning.
:: Main Inspiration.
:: Side Inspiration.
:: Game Design - Gameplay States.
:: Visual Design.
:: Showcase of Mechanics.
:: Development Tools.
:: Roadmap.
:: And How Can YOU Participate in Development of This Project?
Let's get started!

- Short Brief into Game.
Index: Purger is an experimental, fast-paced, single-player first-person shooter set in a dystopian cityscape known as Index-0. The main game design goal of this project is to create an unusual story that combines the bloodshed of the mercenary's job with the citizen life of the character. In this game, you take on the role of an Omega Security mercenary, who participates in a variety of military operations in restricted zones and other important missions for this company. You will have a wide range of equipment and perks to deal with extreme military conflicts, which will always be part of the main character's "job." Experimenting with equipment and perks is the only way to survive in this deadly sandbox. Aside from that, you'll be able to engage in the main character's "days of citizen life," during which you can pick whether to live a peaceful life or turn the sector into criminal bloodshed, as well as explore the surrounding game environment and participate in other activities.

- Story of the Beginning.
This project began in May 2022 as a hobby project in which I planned to create a prototype of a first-person shooter using Godot Engine. People complained at the time that Godot 3 wasn't powerful enough for 3D games, but no one could provide specific examples. I personally love Godot because of its simple, lightweight design, as well as for the ability to control anything with code. Game engine that allows me to create games with ease. In the past, I exported the game and shared it with my friends to gain feedback. During the early stages of development, I created 5 early builds: The Unnamed One, Build 0, Build 1, Build 2, Build 3, and Build 4. I'd like to tell you about them because they're an interesting element of the project's history that helped me to shape the spirit of the game.

:: Unnamed In-Dev Build.
To make a first-person shooter, you must create some of the basic elements first. The list is extensive: Player movement, weapons, characters, enemy logic, level development tools, and so on. At the beginning, I created a game design document for myself that described the game I wanted to create and its requirements. However, this was a mistake, and you should create the prototype first in this case, because writing a design document too early may result in severely obsolete information. In July 12 2022, I exported the first, unnamed in-dev build of the game, which I shared with my friend. This build featured: An amazing main menu. Console commands that are the only way to start the game. Player controller with support for many cases like ladders, stairs, water, etc. The one and only test level named flat_plane_2. Weapons. Props with many properties. Location events to build up gameplay logic. And probably a little more than that. That is a really minimalistic build; yet, this version of the game inspired me to create something more interesting than the simplistic mall shooting game that I planned. During this version, I created the dialog system that supports complex dialog graphs, as well as the "simple dialog" system, which allows you to start a character's monologue by interacting with them. Understanding of how simple it is to work with that stuff became a turning point in making this game project more complicated than it was originally intended to be.

:: Build 0 / Build 1
Build 0 was created on August 29, 2022, at 4:20. Of course, it was broken, so Build 1 was supposed to fix it up a little. The primary purpose of these versions is to prototype and test the game's mechanics, which will be necessary for developing the game's future story and gameplay. This version has three test locations with gameplay and a brief story: test_gang_war, test_violence, and test_weird_quest. Each of them used the game's systems to create a basic interactive world with characters. As a result, each of these levels set up their own rules.

= test_gang_war 
test_gang_war is a location where you can join one of the local criminal factions. You can join the Blue Gang by completing their quest, which requires you to carry a briefcase from the photo store. Alternatively, you can grab the briefcase and bring it to the red gang to join. Or, finally, you can go to a secret weird guy and bring it to him, making yourself an enemy of both sides. There are also other secrets and characters to interact with. test_gang_war is essentially a proof of concept that I can create "citizen day" locations.

= test_violence
In test_violence, you appear underground in a settlement with local NPCs. There's also someone in your head asking you to ruin the local party. This level has... a money system, a shop, dancing people, some sort of significant rich person, a variety of dropped weapons throughout the level, and some secrets. In this level, you have a very clear goal: Cause a slaughter to get the cops to come to your place. If you kill someone on this level, the alert starts and everyone will panic. You can leave this location if you defeat the police. test_violence is a proof of concept for how I can create a completely different game level with its own mechanics, such as a money system that was not originally included in the game.

= test_weird_quest
test_weird_quest is a game level with a nondescript factory. In this game level, your primary goal is to escape the location. You can speak with a sitting guy that will teach you more about the batteries that can be used to unlock the gate. Of course, the guy has a simple errand for you: Find the lost briefcase. As a reward, you will receive a battery from him. In this scenario, there are two legitimate ways to fulfill the errand. The first way is to bring the briefcase as he asked for. Or, as the second option, you can find a secret stash with an axe, brutally murder him, and take that battery for yourself. After inserting all three batteries into the slots, the gate opens and you can leave the area. test_weird_quest is a proof-of-concept for more or less complex quests.

:: Build 2
In build 2, that was exported on October 14, 2022, I wanted to think about the game's future content and how to structure it. Even though the citizen aspect of the game appeals to me much, I still wanted to make this game a first-person *shooter*, therefore I've been considering creating mercenary campaigns in between citizen days. During this build, I created an entire "day1" segment in which you will visit The Get-Inn Mall and kill the bad guys. You're going to do it all on your own since you're a badass character with plenty of plot armor. In m_day1_1, you begin with a lengthy monologue of the Agent, who provides you some information about the mission. Then you simply kill the squad near the entrance, pass through the gates, enter the Com-Store, brutally survive in that arena, and exit the mall once the job is completed. Development of m_day1_1 was difficult, so I began to experiment with reusing that game level. Basically, my idea back then was to duplicate m_day1_1 and create different types of gameplay in other levels. For example, m_day1_4 would have a slightly more specific plot, in which the Agent would record your footage of you brutally killing the bad guys in order to use it as material to spook the bad guys' informant, which would eventually lead to the enemies being killed again, similar to m_day1_1, but with a slight difference. As you might think, I repeated it in other locations of that section too. As a result, during this build, I realized that if I want the mercenary campaigns to be interesting, I need to be more creative with them and accept the fact that good, unique levels take time and are essential for any shooter, and if the level is actually made decently, it will make the game better and more memorable.

:: Build 3
Build 3 was exported on November 21, 2022, and it became a turning point in the design of mercenary missions. Sadly, I had to remove the entire "day1" section of the build 2, but it was all for the best because the new campaign seemed to be more fascinating. This version includes the Get-Inn Mall shootout, an episode in which you return to the Get-Inn Mall at night to set up sentry guns, the factory raid in which you will enter the secret laboratory, the illusion fields, the raid of the "Food House" in which you will infiltrate the parking lot to kill one of the enemy bosses, and the possibility to add more locations on top of that. That version also polished the heads-up display in a way how it looks now. Additionally, during this version, I've been thinking about ways to bring more diversity to enemies. In build 2, there were just two types of enemies: Light units and heavy units. This version includes additional types such as chemical units, electro-units, and explosion units. As a result, the shooting scenarios became more chaotic, which wasn't enough for me. I thought the main character still needed a friend, so now there are friendly units that assist the player in fighting the bad guys. As a result, the battlefield in this game has became the ultimate chaotic massacre, and even if I didn't intend to make it this way initially, it was something that this game needed and something that I was missing in some other shooters that attempt to polish the experience to the point where chaos is almost non-existent. After exporting this version, I began working on a new build that included more locations and updates in other aspects of the game.

:: Build 4
And here it is: the final early build created on December 27, 2022. At this point, you may be wondering, "Why did you stop making newer builds from this point?" The main reason is that exporting newer builds began to take a long time, and the exported game had its own unique bugs and errors that could not be replicated if you started the game from the editor. So that's why build 4 is the game's final early build. The build 4 includes new levels such as M.Inc's office, where you must obtain the company's intel by hacking into servers, the sewers, which you will use as an escape route; one of the sewer levels features a unique water flooding part, and the massive teleporter, which will transport you to the bad guys' secret base, where you will eliminate their leader, which is the final level that I had planned. At this point, I realized that I was missing the citizen locations, so it would be ideal to start working on the first one, which is the poor zone level. Since that version of the game, I've been working on a variety of game systems to make it a more polished experience and, eventually, began to work on the game's visuals, which were a difficult journey. One of the most significant changes in the future, unpublished versions of the game is the custom-made exporting system, which made it possible to easily fix the bugs of the exported game.

- Main Inspiration.
I have three main inspirations. Of course, there are many different shooters that inspire me when it comes to certain aspects of this game, such as Escape From Tarkov or Battlefield 3, but when it comes to the core, I am primarily inspired by Half-Life 2, District maps for Garry's Mod, and Cruelty Squad. That may appear to be a bunch of wild picks, but let me explain...

:: Half-Life 2.
I believe everyone is familiar with Half-Life 2, in which you play as Gordon Freeman during a time when aliens have taken over the Earth. Welcome to City-17.
- Graphics. What inspires me in this game's graphics is how simple the workflow is for the environmental props and brush textures. Simple, yet quite effective. Additionally, the lighting and color usage in this game might be utilized as a reference.
- Movement. The player controller in this game moves quite smoothly and works in a variety of environmental conditions, including stairs, ladders, water, and so on. It makes it an ideal reference for any type of fast-paced first-person game.
- Environmental sound design. I will discuss the environmental sound design from a more technical pont of view. Internally, Source uses the env_soundscape object to place so-called soundscapes, which help to organize and place environmental ambience in all game levels. Index: Purger uses a very similar system.
- Gameplay diversity. Half-Life 2 features a linear campaign, yet it is an excellent example of how to diversify a campaign to keep the majority of gamers engaged. However, I should point out that this is not an easy thing, and creating a similar campaign requires extensive playtesting. I'm not sure if I'll be able to compete on these terms, but I'd like to do my best to use the help of the community and achieve that target.
- Dystopian setting. This may sound very subjective, but I personally enjoy playing and working with games with dystopian setting, which influenced my decision to choose one in Index: Purger.

:: District maps for Garry's Mod.
District maps are a collection of five different maps in which you play as a no-name resident who must acquire money in order to exit this district. Since you've arrived to the world's anal cavity, crime is the one and only way for you to succeed.
- Simplicity. I'd like to point out that this map was created using almost exactly the same toolset as Half-Life 2, with the exception of using Lua scripts to give NPCs custom melee weapons. This is inspiring because I can create a similar game level in my own game because its toolset is flexible enough to allow for such scenarios.
- Absurdity. When you get involved in criminal conflict between local groups, you are not dealing with a realistic conflict in which these groups are attempting to stay cautious and stealthy. These guys don't care about anything and will start a damn bloodshed for any reason. While this may sounds like a negative point, absurdity is exactly what made it interesting to participate in those types of conflicts, which has influenced my design decisions. Absurdity always provides a lot of opportunity for creating something interesting as a result without that much of constraints. Sadly, if you create a game with focus on absurdity, some gamers may complain about the lack of realism and general logic, but this is an acceptable price to pay for.
[Absurdity has to be paid for]
- Exploration. These maps are not linear and allow you to explore the surroundings in a simple way. While the environments are not particularly appealing, the level design aspect of these maps should be used as a good reference because it gives a sense of freedom and makes it interesting to explore everything, from various secret stashes to the bases of local criminal groups.
- Atmosphere. These maps have a compelling dark mood, making it a useful reference for me.
[Paste footage of downtown_district ending with Cremation Lily song]

:: Cruelty Squad.
You may have heard about this game. It is known as a game with the worst graphics and sounds to be ever witnessed, but there are people that genuinely enjoy it. Maybe because this game is a joke and an online phenomenon, there are still inspiring game design solutions for me personally.
- Broken game world. Apparently, there are people that want to be able to break the game through various means. While I won't be able to go as far as Cruelty Squad does, it's still exciting to add ways to break Index: Purger since, well, breaking a videogame is always fun.
- Weapon design. Surprisingly, Cruelty Squad's weapon design serves as a good example of how to create weapons in such a way that they are not only diverse, but also an interesting thing to collect.
- Simplistic gameplay loop. You enter the mission, kill the target, escape, and repeat. It seems to be bad in words, but it works well in action, and it could be a good aspect to use as a reference in this game project to develop some of the simple gameplay loops and levels for them.

- Side Inspiration.
While certain games had a direct impact on this game project's vision for gameplay and visual design, others have had an impact on the game's smaller aspects.

:: Payday: The Heist and Payday 2.
- These games feature clowns that steal whatever they can get their hands on. And all of this happening while a blasting soundtrack is playing. I'd like to point out that different parts of the soundtrack play at different stages of the robbery, which inspired me to create a similar system for the mercenaries' job. This game uses music everywhere, including the main menu, the preparation stage, and when you win or lose. Music is a universal language that, when used correctly, may allow your game to express itself individually, as these games are a good reference for that. 

:: Escape From Tarkov.
- There are lots of things that game have done correctly, including flashbangs, night-vision goggles, a range of equipment such as armor and ammo rigs, damagable helmet visors, and recoil model for firearm. Tarkov affected all of that stuff in Index: Purger.

:: Max Payne 1
- Aside from being a direct influence for bullet-time when using an I-EXP23 injector, Max Payne 1 also includes a comics system that allows the developers to create a story without using complex, expensive cut-scenes. I would like to create a similar system because, as an indie developer, I don't have the ability to create such complex animations. Comics for the win!

- Game Design - Gameplay States.
During this section, I'll only discuss the gameplay loop logic; the overall game design of this project is a large topic, and I won't be able to cover it all in a single introduction video, but a description of the gameplay logic should help you understand what kind of game it is.

:: Gameplay Loop.
Let me introduce you to the revolutionary "Box" gameplay loop. You cluelessly enter the box, go through an undefined series of events, and then exit to enter another box. Jokes aside, when it comes to singleplayer first-person shooters, it is hard to create a single, strictly defined gameplay loop. If you are too repetitive in this case, your game will quickly get boring to play, which is why it is especially important to gather more players early on so that they may complain when it becomes too repetitive and suggest how to solve it. In this case, finding a balance between enjoyable repetitive patterns, gameplay variety, and acceptable development times can be difficult. Simply saying, in order to be interesting, each game level should have its own gameplay approach, which increases development time and reveals a lot of potential for falling down the rabbit hole of suffering.

However, does this mean that gameplay rules cannot be defined in this case? In terms of this project, it is possible to create many types of precisely defined gameplay loops that may be utilized in a variety of situations, with the possibility of modifying a specific game level to make it a little more interesting. In terms of this project, it might be easier to describe the gameplay loops by dividing the game into three different states: The citizen state, the operation state, and the mission state.

:: The Citizen State.
During this state, you are being an Index-0 citizen, with limited freedom to use for your own interests. Honestly, this state uses the "box" gameplay loop to it's maximum. Rules can still be defined for this state though. To begin with, if you commit a crime, you will have to deal with the local authorities, who will be represented in form of the police units. You may face legal issues for killing other residents or trespassing into locations where you are not permitted to be. Depending on the status of the zone you are in, it may be easier or more difficult to obtain a law prosecution. For example, residential zones have the highest level of protection, when in poor zones, nobody cares until you start a slaughter of all citizens. During all citizen days, you will be able to participate in a series of linear questlines, which typically involve joining some of the crime groups to accomplish their tasks. Besides that, there may be additional kinds of activities, such as achievement hunt, exploration of the location for various goods, etc. As result, it becomes that kind of complex non-linear gameplay loop.

:: The Operation State.
When you are joining the Omega Security for good, you will get access to operations of this security company. You can choose any of the provided operations, accomplish them to get a reward in form of additional EXP. During this state, you have a choice to either farm more EXP to get more equipment and perks, or to spend this EXP to continue the main mission of this security company (which eventually continue the main character's story). There might be several types of operations: Looting, capture and high-value target. This list may not be limited to these types only, but it might be easier to provide these as an example.

= Looting.
- You enter certain area to explore it to find some goods. The name of this type is pretty much self-explanatory, you will find valuable loot in that location and escape when you find enough loot. During this operation, you may get combat scenarios with local bandits or with the enemy security company. This type requires pretty much open locations with possibility to enter inside the buildings to search for goods.

= Capture.
- The enemy security company is setting up various "connection points" in the restricted zones to make a secure encrypted communication channel. During this type, your main target is to capture all of the "connection points" which eventually will lead to elimination of all enemy forces in that area. Once you capture all of the points, your mission successfully ends.

= High-Value Target.
- Omega Security may order you to eliminate certain kind of high-value target... anywhere really. You start in a certain area, locate the target, eliminate it, exit the area. Simple as that.

These types are simple on their own and each of them require only one game level for all the action. The main reason this state has to exist in this game is because it provides an actual possibility to experiment with equipment and perks before starting the main mission state. Additionally, it provides a possibility to farm for the equipment or perks. Repetitiveness of these operations also allow to hide some secrets which eventually can be found because most likely people will explore the whole location before starting the main mission.

Due to technical reasons, you will only have 3 available operations before certain main mission. After accomplishment of the main mission, your list of operations will be changed. The reason for that is locational preloading that makes switching between locations extremely fast, the only problem is related to need of additional memory and videomemory. 3 game levels can be used a decent middle value, because in this case these levels can be decently detailed while not being too costy in memory.

:: The Mission State.
This state represents a complex set of events combined into one mission and may require multiple locations to cover them all avoiding all potential technical issues. Sadly it is impossible to describe this state as a strictly defined set of rules like previous states, however, there is already a mission that can serve as a good example, "The Get-Inn Mall Defense". Basically, you start this state from the Omega Security presentation that provides you infomation to prepare for the ongoing events. This presentation informs you about the plot and about the various future dangerous factors to deal with, which may affect your decision on choice of the equipment. "The Get-Inn Mall Defense" consists of variety of locations, starting from m_day1_1 and ending with m_day1_3_post1. Each of these locations set up their own rules in order to tell different parts of the story. During m_day1_1, you start with the news audio... [news here] ... and continue with killing the enemy squad you have first met, you inform the Overwatch about the neutralized units, get information about the incoming attack of enemy troops and as result this section of the mall turns into wide-ranged arena. Once you are completing the arena section, you will defuse all of the explosions and proceed into the neighboring computer store to take over it, which is m_day1_2. As you see, m_day1_1 has it's very own gameplay loop. Same as [start showing the algorithm scheme for each gameplay loop] m_day1_2, m_day1_2_post0, m_day1_2_post1, m_day1_3, m_day1_3_post0, m_day1_3_post1. While this may sound tricky to implement, i think it depends on your toolset and your will to replay the same level over and over again in order to build a nice blockout.

- Visual Design.
It's been tricky to find out what actually is going to fit the visual needs of this project. m_day1_1 can serve as an example because it has been completely retextured for 3 times.

[Screenshots of m_day1_1 evolution here]

When you make visual design for a 3D game, you have to combine several things: Aesthetical beauty, development speed and technological possibilities. In this triangle, you really have to pick your poison and most likely you will be screwed up one way or another if you use semi-realistic elements. It is hard to design it in an actually perfect way, but i suppose that imperfections of specific projects make them visually unique as result. Before starting to talk about the visual idea of this game, i will talk about the core basics first. 

:: Materials.
There is a long story behind materials in this game, i would like to cover it in a separate episode. Index: Purger is using Physically-Based Rendering for everything, it is using a following texture set: Diffuse map, normal map and MRSAO map. MRSAO map is just a channel packed texture that contains metalness, roughness, specular and ambient occlusion values inside. This way materials in this game are optimized enough in terms of OpenGL texture switch operations and are relatively optimized in VRAM usage. There exceptions when materials do not use full PBR set, but that's a whole different topic to cover. Why did i choose PBR as result? Simply because it allows for more creative control and there are plenty of procedural tools to work with PBR materials. For example, Quixel Mixer allows you to use multiple PBR materials to make your own material, or, more than that, gives you a lot of fancy layer masks to use to make decent tile-like materials. If you are into PBR stuff, i highly recommend taking a look on this tool for neat blending of your materials for your game levels.

:: Textures / References.
To start with... I'm not using local surroundings as a reference simply because there are no interesting environments to recreate or if there are some, they won't fit into this game as a playable environment. Therefore using local environments for textures is also under question. That forced me to build entire visual workflow of this game around the idea of not exiting the home for references or textures. Surprisingly, the internet has a ton of stuff for everything. One of my personal favorites for textures are "Texture Ninja" and "Texturer" websites. For basic PBR textures and basic HDRIs - "AmbientCG" and "Polyhaven". For free Creative-Commons-0 sounds - "Freesound.ORG". All of the links are listed in the description. Pretty much same deal with references as well, i'm using Pinterest and Google to look for more imagery to use as a reference. I'm using PureRef to be able to organize and look into a huge set of references.

:: Visual Idea.
The main visual idea of Index: Purger is about creation of surrealistic experience that resembles experience of the older games in a slightly modernized way. Besides general nostalgia that i have about the old shooters, there are 2 specific reasons of that choice: Freedom and technical limitations. Surrealism actually provides an extreme degree of freedom to design anything with ease, potentially making it easier to develop as well as giving a possibility to make interesting ideas to make this game more fun. That's where i take Half-Life 2 as an example of proper use of surrealism to create a captivating, believable experience. But, besides that, there are also technical limitations that do not allow myself to work on way too complicated visuals, which realistic assets tend to be. Mainly, i designed it in a way to have fun with it during development, and, you know what? I had plenty of fun with it during 2 years of development.

- Showcase of Mechanics.
[Just a bunch of videos with text that would describe what kind of developed feature that is. This section is about showing the whole thing to people without talking about it.]
:: Player Movement - Walking
:: Player Movement - Stairs
:: Player Movement - Ladder
:: Player Movement - Water
:: Weapon System
:: NPCs
:: Soundscapes
:: Loadout System
:: Achievements
:: Save System
:: Destructible Elements
:: Dialog System
:: Helmet Visors
:: Night Vision Goggles
:: Truly Confusing List of Settings
:: Low Health Effects
:: Suppression Effect
:: Flashbangs
:: Color Grading
:: Game Menu / Main Menu
:: Music System / Voicelines System
:: Surface Detection
:: Tasks / Task Points

- Development Tools.
Development tools are essential to make the development not only effective, but also satisfying. There are a lot of people that treat game development process as nothing but repetitive suffering. While this may be partially true, properly designed development tools may help to avoid problems and make development actually enjoyable.

[Same as features showcase, except it is going to cover various tools.]
:: Custom Ubershader
:: Splitting the exported game to multiple packs.
:: Console Commands
:: Developer Menu
:: Dialog Editor
:: Blender Plugin
:: PropKit
:: Fire
:: Dust Motes
:: Smoke
:: Clouds
:: Light Volume
:: Point Particle
:: Sprite
:: Mesh Combiner
:: Triggers / Buttons

:: Location Events
I've shown you a list of tools that i have, however, there is one more important tool that i want to talk about: Locational Events. Location events help to define gameplay logic with help of "Script Toolkits", "Script Components" and variety of other nodes. That is basically the way how i construct gameplay in game levels of this project. When you use a button for example, it can emit a location event with a specified name. Here i've placed a button that would spawn an NPC after pressing it. Other scripts are listening to location events, and, if the name of the event is equal to the one they are listening for, it runs the logic. "Script Toolkits" are small objects that run some kind of logic, like the "delay script toolkit" that receives an event and runs an event after some time. "Script Components" modify behavior of already existing nodes, for example by adding a special component to a location prop, you can turn it to a rotating door. This way it is possible to construct the gameplay with ease by using prebuilt blocks, which also allows to make a save system that would allow to save all values with an extreme precision.

:: Level Design Tools
There are basically 3 ways to design a level. The traditional way, the terrain-based method and the modular hell. Level design tools in this project are made in a way to allow making any of the types because they allow to make different kinds of levels with ease. 

= Traditional Way.
The traditional way allows to make any kind of level, however, it works the best for corridoric or compact levels. The whole idea of the traditional level is about making a blockout of the location in Blender and then starting to work on details. Usually the detailing stage can be different for levels. Sometimes, it is about just assigning textures in Blender. However, sometimes it is actually easier to add detail with replacing whole parts of the blockout with props. The main benefit of the traditional way is possibility to make nice levels with good shooting scenarios, however, that kind of levels can hard to design and hard to add details to.

= Terrain-Based Method.
Terrain-Based Method is using terrain as the foundation of entire level. The main benefit of this method is about making huge levels with ease. You make a terrain that can be procedurally generated and then place props all over the place, like roads, buildings, etc. This kind of levels can be relatively easy to design and easy to detail, but all of them will be decently huge. That is an extremely helpful method to make decently sized levels where you'd need to use long-range weapons like in sniper missions.

= The Modular Hell.
There is also a possibility to commit a literal modular hell. You can make props that can be connected to each other in modular way. This way, you can make entire level like that or just make a part of it this way. This way, it is very easy to make detailed levels, but it can be hard to design levels with decent shooting scenarios. It suits the best for medium-sized levels where you'd need to walk around in a decently detailed level.

As you understand, all of these methods can be used together in one level. For example, terrain can be used for distant landscapes that are not supposed to be accessible. Or modular hell can be commited in a level that was made the traditional way in order to add something on top of it for the sake of gameplay or detailing.

- Roadmap.
I've been developing this project for 2 years at this point and... Sadly it is hard to define a specific long-term roadmap for this project. However, i do have future plans that i'd like to mark as current roadmap. Firstly, this project goes more public than ever before. By releasing this dev-log, i share this project with the world with hope that i will get more players and community feedback that will help me to improve this project further. At third quarter of 2024, i would like to publish a demo of this game. This roadmap can and will be changed in the future to fit the needs of the project.

- How Can YOU Participate in Development of This Project?
If you watched this video to the end, most likely you have an interest in this project. I'd like to ask for your support then! You can support this project by joining the Discord server that you can see in the description or simply by adding the game into wishlist on Steam. By joining the Discord server, you'll be able to talk about this project, get pretty much fast response (when i'm online though), share your ideas or discuss ideas of others, download the early builds of the game, get access to development blog channel where i'm going to share, well, anything related to this project early, and so on.