I want to tell a lot about myself and that might take a while, i think that is important for you all to understand my capabilities and motives in terms of this project. Additionally, if you are just starting in game development, you may find it interesting. So... Honestly, i started a long, long time ago. I've always wanted to make a first-person shooter, simply because i'm a big fan of this genre. It started when i was 12, i decided to learn more about the Java programming language to make a Minecraft Forge mod. Back then i thought that would be a nice idea to do so because, as much as i heard about it, creation of game modifications is one of the ways to learn more about the game development in general. Sadly, i still didn't make any Minecraft mods because, during the reading of "Head First Java" book, i switched my attention completely from learning the Minecraft modmaking to learning the Java in general. When i was 13, i participated in "competitive programming" events that improved my knowledge about data structures and algorithms in general. Given that background, i would say that i think about videogames from programming standpoint in first place, and, as it follows, i give it more priority than anything else. When i was almost 14, i started to realize that i didn't learn much about Java, because programming events required me to use Pascal programming language in order to able to participate. I barely had 400 pages that i readed and i realized that i don't even remember any of them, so i started from scratch. I also realized that my brains are getting very bored during the process of learning and coding even if i had an actual interest in programming. Music was the thing i missed, as result, Payday soundtrack made my childhood. Simon Viklund, most likely you will not hear this, but you are my damn personal hero. Anyway, i managed to read the whole book in a week while listening to blasting soundtrack. As result, i managed to make a calculator with graphical interface by writing a thousand lines of code on Java and i used Java Swing library for UI. Of course it wasn't fancy, but it was a good groundbreaking progress for me to make this thing on my own, starting from that point i realized that i can look forward for other things to learn to get closer to my original idea of making a first person shooter. Yeah, i had some other projects in Java that i made out of curiousity, such as an attempt to make Minesweeper with an infinitely generatable field, but i didn't get much of a progress in these projects. After learning Java, i didn't want to return to Pascal because it was rather limiting in all ways. Surprisingly, there was an option to use C++. Additionally, C++ could've been used to make your very own game engine, and i wanted to make one to get cleaner idea of how game engines are functioning inside. So learning C++ could be helpful in all ways, and as it follows C++ became my ultimate goal for that time period. I learned it relatively easy because Java is pretty much C-like language even given all the OOP stuff it has. It took me 12 days to master the basics of leg-shooting skill. Just saying, the basics, this language is really complex and i still didn't master it on an actually good level... Actually Bjarne himself says he knows just 80% of this beast of a language... In either way, i've got enough knowledge to progress further and end up with making a basic rendering engine with barebones support of Bullet Physics engine and i also made a Minecraft-like world generator that would generate infintely as you move with the camera. Even if these things may sound very basic, they helped me a lot to learn more about various algorithms used in terms of game development and the other most important thing that are basics of linear math. Besides that, i learned that making of a game and making of an engine are two completely different things because they have drastically different, time-costy problem sets. Originally i wanted to make a game, so i switched over anything that would be more helpful for me to make a game. Garry's Mod interested me the most because it was a nice game to play with friends and it had a lot of possibilities to make mods for this game, but what interested me the most is possibility to write Lua and possibility to share your work with others. So i learned it all from "Code Blue" channel, rest in peace my dude, it was so damn fun to learn it all. I even ended up with writing ten thousand lines of Lua for a project named "TerritoryWars" that added a whole advanced group wars system into game. Yeah... Ten thousand lines of disaster...

I'll start from telling more about myself. When i've written the plot of this episode, i ended up telling way too much about myself, so if you are interested to hear more about my biography related to game development, let me know in the comments. Either way... I started to learn programming at 12 because i wanted to make a Minecraft Forge mod as it was a nice way to learn more about game development. I've been reading "Head First Java" book that made me completely switch attention from making a mod to learning this language in general. At 13, i've been participating in "competitive programming" events that helped me to learn more about data structures and algorithms, the only downside is that i had to switch attention from Java to Pascal. I returned to Java when i almost were 14 and i had to start reading the book from scratch. After making my first calculator with UI in 14, i switched over C++ to shoot my own legs in attempts to make barebones game engine, which was an extremely helpful experience as i learnt various algorithms, the basics of linear math and how game engines function inside. That also made me realize that making a game and making an engine are two different kinds of things as they have 2 completely different problem sets. In 15-16, i moved on to making Garry's Mod mods, such as TerritoryWars addon that added a whole advanced group war system into game, but in the end, it ended up being a ten thousand lines of disaster on Lua, it had a lot of problems related to design of user interface, the game design and etc. It was an interesting experience, but i had to move on from this too. In 16, i learned more about Unity and started to make my very first shooter, the Escaper project which had procedurally generated weaponry, procedurally generated hands, and cube-like characters. I had to scrap this project because it was very poorly written and had very much undefined design, so i started making the version 2 of the project that had completely different design and included things made with skeletal animation, however, i had to stop working on this project as well because i realized that i have major issues with sound design, modelling and level design. Each three aspects are huge on their own and require a lot of focus on them, learning them is like a separate project, so that became my target for age of 17. I learned more about sound design through huge variety of tutorials and that helped me to master making of soundscapes and other huge variety of sounds such as sounds for weapon animation and user interface. Besides that, learning more about sound design helped me to understand how to make music as it can be treated as an organized sound. I can't say much about modelling, but my main issue with modelling was related to use of no references. After starting to use references and treating the process as "from big to small" when you start from blockouts and end with detailing, i managed to make a bunch of neat projects, one of them is that military character. At 18, i wanted to learn more about level design and environment art, but these 2 topics were very confusing for me as it is hard to find a universal way to learn it. In any way, i perfectly understood that i need to make levels in a way to be able to share it with others to get player's feedback, and that's where i found Garry's Mod useful again, i made a good bunch of maps such as gm_liminal_space and gm_post_ussr both of which helped me to practice in this confusing kind of skillset, gm_post_ussr especially helped me to learn more about creation of props and textures for Half-Life-2-esque environments which i personally liked the most. And at this point, i really wanted to get back into creation of my first-person shooter because i felt more confident with my skills, however, one group of developers, name of whose i'd like to keep in secret, invited me to participate in their project and i found this interesting. They wanted to use Godot for a very undefined reason and i didn't like that decision, but later on, i kinda started to like this engine for it's simplistic design. Sadly, they kicked me out and promised me to not use any of my developments that i made in terms of the project, such as a player viewmodel system and a humanoid model system. I didn't really want to use Godot for this project, because i didn't find it to be advanced enough to fit the needs of the project, but at 19 i decided to make a sandbox-like project anyway to test this engine out and i ended up making the Index: Purger on Godot. I'm 20, and i still make this game and finally i wish to tell more about it on Youtube with hope to get a community around it that would help me to balance my decisions to make this shooter better for everyone.

^^^ Cutting it down because it doesn't really fit well into "introduction" video and may not be interesting for devlog in it's entirety